hello my name is John McAvoy 13 years
older than from the BBC that wisdom has
asked me to when find out how schools
find their notes a back garden full of
squirrels has given John and his mum
Alison the perfect opportunity to
investigate and film something which has
puzzled scientists for years squirrels
berry nuts all over the place but how do
they find them John's house trained
squirrels are the perfect experimental
subjects John devised a test using these
little things but what are they these
may not look like it will basically use
that we've called in paper cut in half
and pains and use of this brilliant
painter it was price 499 the squirrels
started with one but John complicates
things with two more colors he only ever
places nuts under the yellow cup but the
squirrel doesn't know that but it
doesn't take long to find it but will it
remember when it returns unfortunately a
flat camera battery cut John's
experiment short well we're charging up
the battery though for the camcorder and
while we started charging it the
squirrel managed to do it he's back now
straight for the yellow cup but maybe
it's the position of the cut that's
important to find out John adds a few
more I'll introduce two more calls now
the grain the green again straight for
the yellow but there's still only five
cups John adds even more well we've got
to my younger ones out we'll put a knot
under each of them
the squirrel comes straight to the
yellow cup but it's still in the same
position so color and position both seem
important to be sure John must scramble
the positions and remove the nuts to
make sure the squirrel isn't smelling
its way to success well we're traveling
no not wondered if they'll just say no
get with a rapper whatever we'll see if
he still does anything this time the
yellow cap has been replaced by a blue
one what will the squirrel do go
straight to the position it found the
nut in last despite the color change but
no nut so it then tries all the yellows
the color which it's learnt to associate
with food so both position and visual
clues seem to be important to squirrels
looking for nuts John can't leave his
squirrels and rewarded okay in
conclusion we think that they use all
three centons color vision then we and
smell to find the nuts because I'm on
the last few shots i noticed that they
were so using the gnosis to dig
underneath the because then smell
unbelief and look it over the doors and
look underneath yeah that won't quite up
until you
john's findings mirror the latest
research by scientists in any event the
squirrels have demonstrated excellent
memory but now back to the wild